Corporate, Commercial & Company Law

Contracts, Agreements & Advisory
General Agreements-partnership agreements, purchase and supply agreements, service agreements, sale agreements, franchise agreements, founder agreements, employment agreements including KMPs, licensing agreements, distribution agreements, vendor contracts, non-disclosure agreements (NDAs), employment contracts (including offer letters, performance appraisal letters, termination letters), annual maintenance agreements, indemnity agreements, et al. 
Sales and Distribution Agreements: for goods/services including e-commerce-specific agreements. 
Consumer Protection Compliances: consumer protection laws such as the Consumer Protection Act, IT Act, Data Protection Laws, and laws relating to refunds, warranties, and product guarantees.
E-Signature Legal Advisory: Advising businesses on the use of electronic signatures (e-signatures) to ensure they are legally compliant. 
E-Commerce / Retail Businesses
Online Retailer Regulatory Compliance: Offering advice on compliance with industry-specific regulatory framework for e-commerce, such as health and safety standards, online pharmacy, and product liability issues for consumer goods sold online.
Advertising and Marketing Compliance: Ensuring compliance with advertising laws, including the use of consumer data for targeted marketing, and compliance with advertising standards set by regulatory bodies in respective industry / sector.
Intellectual Property 
Intellectual Property Protection: Advising on protecting intellectual property (IP)  such as trademarks, patents, and copyrights for all contracts as enlisted hereinabove. 
Copyright Infringement and Enforcement: Advising on strategies to protect and/or defend potential copyright infringement in the media, digital and e-commerce space, including issuing takedown notices, replies, and managing IP disputes, however not litigations.
Indemnity, Liability and Dispute Resolution 
Disputes: Notices/ Replies and/or Advising businesses on handling non-performance, breach, delivery disputes, payment disputes et al. 
Indemnity Agreements: Drafting / Reviewing / Negotiating Indemnity and Liability Agreements. This includes sending notices/ replies to seek or defend Indemnity. 
Dispute Resolution Agreements: Drafting / Reviewing / Negotiating clauses for dispute resolution, including, deadlock clauses, escalation matrix’s, conciliations, mediation, Governing Law, and Arbitration provisions. 
General End-to End Documentation:
Drafting / Reviewing:  crucial (protective/defensive) clauses such as strengthening of commercial structure (including fundamental purpose, payment terms vs completion milestones, delivery obligations & date), obligations, representations and warranties, indemnity, limitation of liability, termination provisions, and dispute resolution. 
Negotiation of Commercial Terms: to ensure favourable business conditions and legal protection.
Enforcement & Performance: Providing advice on enforcing and managing contractual obligations, as well as assisting in cases of non-performance or breach.
Exit Clauses & Termination: Drafting termination provisions, including those for early termination, dispute resolution, and exit strategies.

Company Secretarial & Governance

Corporate Structure & Formation: Drafting, Reviewing and/or Advising on appropriate legal structure for businesses (e.g., corporation, limited liability company, partnership) and assisting with company formation, its documents, and registration.
Board Governance: Drafting, Reviewing and/or Advising on corporate governance best practices and policies, charter documents [such as Certificate of Incorporation (COI), Articles of Association (AoA), shareholder agreements, shareholder rights], board structures, duties and power of directors, rules for board meetings, agenda, minutes, and resolutions, and ensuring compliance with legal obligations related to corporate meetings.
Regulatory Compliances: of relevant local, national, and international corporate laws, governance framework, and regulations, such as ministry of information and broadcasting, Securities Exchange Board of India, securities regulations, and industry-specific regulatory and compliance requirements (e.g., media, healthcare, et al).
Corporate Filings & Reporting: of corporate filings, forms, annual returns/reports, corporate disclosures to regulatory authorities, and any other required corporate documents.
Corporate Record Keeping: Ensuring the proper maintenance of corporate records, registers of shareholders and directors, and other statutory documents.
Regulatory Filings and Updates: regulatory filings, including changes in directorship, shareholding, and company structure, ensuring all changes are duly recorded and filed with the appropriate authorities.
CSR, Sustainability and ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance): 

Sustainability and ESG : Offering legal counsel on sustainability initiatives, corporate social responsibility (CSR), and meeting ESG criteria in corporate governance.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): Drafting, Reviewing and/or Advising on CSR Policies, CSR strategies and ensuring compliance with regulations related to environmental impact, ethics, and corporate transparency and good governance.

Mergers & Acquisitions, JVs & Strategic Alliances

Due Diligence: Conducting thorough legal due diligence for mergers, de-mergers, acquisitions, and investments to identify legal risks, liabilities, and opportunities.
M&A Structuring and Strategy: Advising on the optimal structure for mergers and acquisitions and negotiating terms for emerging businesses.
M&A Agreements: Drafting, Reviewing and Negotiating term sheets, LOI’s, definitive agreements, share purchase agreements (SPAs), shareholder agreements, assignment agreement, novation agreement, intimation letters, and other related documents.
Joint Venture Agreements: Drafting, Reviewing and Negotiating joint venture agreements, including the terms of collaboration, capital contributions, profit-sharing, et al.  
Strategic Alliances: Drafting strategic alliance agreements, partnerships, collaborations, including defining roles, responsibilities, and profit-sharing mechanisms.
Post-M&A Integration: Advising on the post-transaction integration of businesses including forms, filings, employee retention, compliance with existing contracts, and restructuring et al. 
Regulatory Approvals and Notifications: Advising for regulatory filings. 

Employment, Labour & Industrial Relations
Employment Contracts and Policies: Drafting and Reviewing employment contracts, offer letters, termination letter, exit/relieving letters, experience letters et al, Drafting Policies [for Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (POSH), Code of Conduct, Social Media, Diversity and Inclusion), and Employee Handbooks to ensure compliance under various labour laws, employer duties, and employee rights.
Employee Benefits and Compensation: Advising on structuring employee benefits packages, including pensions, gratuity, insurance, bonuses, allowances, and reimbursements.
Labor Disputes/Grievances: Assisting company in internal settlements or disputes with employees, including wrongful termination, wage claims, and workplace harassment claims.
Workplace Safety and Compliance: Ensuring compliance with health and safety regulations in the workplace, and advising on risk management.
Redundancy and Layoffs: Advising on legal compliance during layoffs, redundancies, or workforce downsizing, including compensation, severance package & its documentations.
Development Programs, Training, Induction: Conducting trainings / presentations for self-development, leadership development, induction programmes, orientations, legal presentation for adherence to various mandatory compliances et al.
Intellectual Property
Trademark and Copyright Protection: Advising on the protection and registration of trademarks, copyrights, and other IP assets, including licensing and enforcement.
IP Licensing and Monetization: Advising on strategies to monetize intellectual property through licensing, franchising, and joint ventures.
Brand Protection and Enforcement: Assist in enforcing and defending their intellectual property rights, including trademark/copyright infringements, and takedown notices.
IP Portfolio Management: Assisting businesses in managing their IP portfolios, including IP due diligences, audits, and licensing agreements
Startups & Emerging Businesses
Business Formation and Structure: Advising on the most appropriate business structure (e.g., LLC, corporation, partnership) and assisting with the formation and registration of startups.
Contract Drafting: Assisting with the drafting of employment contracts, key managerial personal contracts, customer agreements, licensing agreements, Merger/JV agreements, franchise agreements, distribution agreements, marketing/branding/advertising/digital advertising agreements, and all key contracts needed by startups. 
Intellectual Property Protection: Assisting startups protect their ideas, including drafting IP agreements. 
Finance, Taxation & Regulatory

Corporate Financing

Investment Agreements: Drafting/Reviewing/Negotiating investment agreements between investors and companies, including shareholder agreements, venture capital, and private equity investments.
Debt & Refinancing: Assisting with review of loan agreements, debt restructuring agreements, refinancing existing debt agreements. 
Bank Guarantees: Drafting / Assisting with Bank Guarantees and Indemnity Agreements.

Restructuring, Insolvency & Bankruptcy

Restructuring Research & Advisory: Research of current laws and regulations in relation to restructuring corporate debt, equity, and operations to improve financial health
Insolvency and Bankruptcy: Research of current laws and regulations on insolvency proceedings, liquidation, creditor rights, bankruptcy filings, and bankruptcy protection.
Debt Restructuring: Collaborating with in-house counsels with debt restructuring processes, including negotiating with creditors, refinancing, or converting debt into equity.
Corporate Reorganization: Collaborating with in-house counsels for research and review of corporate reorganizations agreements, such as spin-offs, and mergers, to improve operational efficiencies or address financial difficulties.
Liquidation and Winding-Up: Collaborating with in-house counsels for liquidation or winding-up processes, including the appointment of liquidators, asset distribution, and creditor settlements.

Taxation
Corporate Tax Planning: Offering advice on tax-efficient business structures and operations, including transfer pricing, VAT/GST, and cross-border tax considerations.
Tax Compliance: Advising businesses on applicable local, national, and international tax laws, including filing returns and maintaining proper documentation.
Tax Disputes and Litigation: Representing clients with tax authorities including appeals, conduct audits, and negotiations to resolve tax-related issues.
Tax Structuring for M&A: Advising on tax-efficient structuring of mergers, acquisitions, and other corporate transactions to minimize liabilities and optimize tax outcomes. 
Compliance, Bribery & White Collar Crime
Compliance Program Development: Designing, drafting and implementing compliance programs, policies, and procedures to adhere to laws and regulations across industries (such as anti-money laundering (AML), anti-bribery and corruption (ABC), data protection). 
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policies: Drafting / Reviewing anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies in accordance with international standards (e.g., Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA), the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). This also includes providing a standard provision for Anti Bribery / Anti-Corruption / Data Protection which can be incorporated in all legal documents of the company. 
Whistleblower Protection: Advising on whistleblower protection programs, including drafting whistleblower policies, setting up reporting mechanisms and escalations, implementation process & its documentation.
Penalties and Settlements: Assisting company with internal drafting and negotiating internal settlements, and remediation documents.
Corporate Presentations: salient features, fundamental provisions, do’s and don’ts et al of the aforementioned laws.  
Technology, Media & Data

Technology & Digital Contracts

Technology Contracts: Software customization, software development agreements, integration agreements (app-in-app, SDK), AMC contracts, payment gateway agreements, gaming development agreements, service level agreements, short messaging service agreements, and IT outsourcing contracts.
Digital Agreements: 
Electronic Agreements : software licenses, cloud service agreements, and digital content licensing and distribution.
Licensing & Distribution Agreements: for digital products, including software, online content, and digital assets (e.g., music, videos, apps, and e-books).
Technology and SaaS Agreements: 
Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) Agreements: for digital platforms providing subscription-based software services, including service level agreements (SLAs), uptime guarantees, and data security provisions.
End User License Agreements (EULA): for software applications, digital products, or mobile apps to outline usage rights, restrictions, and user responsibilities.
E-Commerce Agreements: 
Terms and Conditions/terms of use, privacy policies, and return/refund policies. 
E-Commerce Platform Agreements: terms of use, seller agreements, affiliate contracts, and product listing terms and conditions.
Payment Gateway Agreements: contracts with payment service providers and ensuring compliance with payment security standards
Advertising and Marketing Agreements: digital marketing activities, including influencer marketing contracts, affiliate marketing agreements, and advertising terms.
Subscription Agreements: subscription-based businesses (either free or advertisement or pay basis), outlining terms for recurring billing, customer rights, and cancellation policies.
AI, Blockchain, Metaverse, NFT

Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Agreements: AI development, licensing, and partnerships between AI providers, users, and collaborators.
Regulation and Compliance: Guidance on complying with existing laws and regulations governing AI technologies, such as data protection, privacy, and ethical standards, including compliance with GDPR, and other regulations when processing personal data.
Blockchain
Agreements: blockchain transactions and decentralized applications (DApps).
Regulation and Compliance: Guidance on navigating regulatory frameworks for cryptocurrency transactions, including Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) obligations.
Metaverse
Agreements: Drafting/Reviewing agreements related to virtual real estate, avatars, and digital assets within the metaverse, including licensing and ownership terms.
Metaverse Intellectual Property: Advising on NFTs, legal rights and ownership of digital real estate, protection of virtual assets, trademarks, and copyrights in virtual worlds, and other IP  assets in the metaverse.
Regulation and Compliance: Ensuring metaverse activities comply with global legal and regulatory frameworks, such as consumer protection, taxation, and data privacy laws including user data privacy, security standards, and managing user consent in virtual environments.
Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)
Agreements: Drafting/Reviewing agreements related to the creation, license, sale, and transfer of NFTs, including its intellectual property rights and resale terms, and terms of service and privacy policies.
NFT Intellectual Property Protection: Advising creators and buyers on IP ownership related to digital art, collectibles, and other NFTs, and further provide guidance on managing risks such as fraud, misrepresentation, and copyright infringement within the NFT market.
Regulation and Compliance: Ensuring NFT platforms comply with certain laws, such as anti-money laundering (AML) and KYC regulations, consumer protection laws, taxation implications of buying, selling, and holding NFTs, including capital gains and VAT (value-added tax).
Media, Entertainment & Telecommunications
 
We have enriching experience of close to 2 decades in Media and Entertainment sector, with a nuanced understanding of all the paperwork, processes, procedure involved during the stages of content making. stages include pre-development, development, production, releases, and post releases of the content via any modes and medium of communication. 
Pre-Production
Development Agreements 
Development including First Look or Exclusive Arrangements 
Option Agreements: Agreement between a production company and a writer or rights holder to option the rights to a script or intellectual property (e.g., books, TV shows, etc.) for a certain period. Usually the term sheets, format rights, adaptation agreements, book option agreements, remake rights, and life story rights etc. 
Writer's Agreements

Financing Agreements (multiple production companies or investors contribute funds) or Investment agreements (investor terms for profit sharing and equity).
Talent and Crew Agreements 
Location and Rights Agreements
Location Releases: Legal permission to shoot on specific locations.
Music & Images Licensing: If pre-existing music & images are to be used, appropriate rights clearances/paperwork.
Advising on elements for Production or Media liability insurance coverage for any unexpected events during production, including cancellation, injury, property damage or rights infringement.
Script Reviews to identify non-compliances or violation of any media laws/regulation in order to avoid future claims or liabilities. 
Production: 
Production Agreements: all structures of master production agreements including Co-Production, Commissioning/Work-For-Hire, Production cum Assignment Agreement, Direct Acquisition (ready content) Agreements. 
Talent and Crew Agreements
Above-the-Line Contracts: For principal talent (actors, directors, casting director, producers, writers, lead star cast, music composer, lead singers etc.).
Below-the-Line Contracts: For crew members such as line producer, cinematographers, art directors, costume designer, sound engineers, costume designers, etc.
Union and Guild Agreements
Copyright and Trademarks
Copyright Registration: Ensure that the intellectual property of content production (script, footage, music, etc.) is copyrighted.
Trademark Protection: Ensure new fictional brand, logo, or show name created does not infringe any existing third party IP. 
Third Party Production Agreements
Subcontractor Agreements: for set design, special effects like VFX etc.
Product Placement Agreements: for in-film placement, standard associate-presenter credit (barter/paid), co-branding promotions etc
Marketing Agreements: for television, radio, print, outdoor advertising, and online media advertising etc
PR Agreements

Post-Production: 
Post-Production Agreements 
VFX/Editor Contracts: for final edit/cut of the content as per creatives/script review. 
Soundtrack and Music Licensing for BGM and third party music synchronisation. 
Distribution and Licensing Agreements 
Pre-Sale Distribution Agreements: for distribution of the content across various platforms (e.g., theatrical, satellite, digital, in-flight streaming etc).
Merchandising Rights
Non-Disclosure Agreements for Test Screening and Feedback to ensure confidentiality and protect intellectual property.

Licensing and Distribution Agreements: 
Theatrical 
Television/Satellite: sale or licensing of content to TV networks via various types of satellite rights such as Terrestrial Television, Pay Television, Free Television, Free-to-Air Satellite rights, Pay-Per-View/Day, Cable TV Rights, etc 
Digital: sale or licensing of content to TV networks via various types of digital rights either on streaming and download basis such as Video on Demand – Transaction VOD, Subscription VOD, Advertising VOD, Near VOD, Free VOD
Music: Agreements for the use of music in film or TV shows. These agreements typically cover: 
Synchronization rights (for film/TV synchronization).
Master rights (for recorded music).
Music Publishing Agreements: for composers and songwriters to manage and license music used in the production.
Home Video
International Sales Agreements
Surface Transport Agreements including inflight, etc 
Standards and Practices (Content Viewing & Opinions): In addition to the legal documents, in India, Standards and Practices related to script viewing vis-à-vis- content viewing and opinions are primarily governed by a mix of statutory regulations and self-regulatory mechanisms. These are required to ensure that content aired on television, the internet, and other media platforms adheres to certain ethical, moral, and legal standards. This is most pertinent step to avoid any potential claims, liabilities or litigations on a later date during or after release of the content. 

Satellite, Broadcasting, & Digital Agreements: In addition to the above:
Channel Agreements : TV Serials Production Agreements, Commissioning Agreements, Deed of Assignments for underlying works, OAP Agreements, Marketing, Advertising, Research & Placement Agreements et al
Web-Series/Short Formats (Fiction/Non Fiction) Productions
Formats (Hindi – Fiction and Non-Fiction)
Digital Agreements including Acquisition, Original Productions, Privacy Policy, T&C’s et al
Syndication or Distribution Agreements for various media rights (Satellite + Digital + Music + Ancillary)
Channel (as a whole) Distribution & Affiliation Agreements
Post-Production, Finance, Ad Sales & Human Resource Agreements
Artist Agreements, Voice over services, music composer, designers, stylists, publishers, authors agreements (for literary, dramatic, musical), teleshopping, forwarding & distribution agency, Contest terms and conditions, PR Agency, advertising agency, Events, Promotions, Marketing, etc.
Music Agreements:
Music Streaming Agreements 
Music Acquisitions (across all genres Bollywood, South, North, Pop, and A&R)
Music Production (& all Underlying Works including Lyricist, Music Composer, Singer, Performer et al)
Artist Recording / Sound Recording Assignment Agreements
Publishing Agreements
Synchronization Agreements 
Telecommunications Regulations: Providing counsel on telecommunications regulations, spectrum licensing, and compliance with government regulations related to telecommunications services.

Media Projects: 
Designing agreement requisition forms / purchase requisitions
Templatization of all types of agreements
Rights Management System - Customization and Execution
Designing Contractual Matrix to simplify the documentation process
Standard Operating Process - for Legal Documentation 
Prepare framework/guidelines for implementation (Standard & Practices, Online Curated Content (OCC) Code of Ethics, Applicability of Stamp Duty state-wise/agreement-wise, Marketing Guidelines  etc.)
General Matters: Apart from all enlisted above, we further conduct Due Diligence of the Content/Corporate Actions/Party etc to ensure clear title or chain of documents.

Data Privacy, Cybersecurity & Protection
Data Privacy: Drafting and Advising businesses on compliance with data privacy laws and regulations including the drafting of privacy policies.
Data Processing Agreements: agreements between e-commerce platforms and third-party vendors who handle customer data, ensuring compliance with data protection laws and outlining data processing term, cookies policy, tracking consent etc.
Cross-Border Data Transfers: Advising on the legal complexities of transferring data across borders, including compliance with international data transfer agreements.
Third-Party Data Contracts: Drafting and negotiating data-sharing and data-processing agreements with third-party service providers to ensure compliance with privacy and security standards.
Real Estate, International Trade & Other Advisory

Real Estate
General Agreements: Drafting and/or reviewing service agreements, procurement agreements, supply agreements, marketing agreements, employment agreements, confidentiality & non-disclosure agreements, general and specific power of attorneys, no objection certificates, transfer deed, gift deed, and other additional documents on a case to case basis. 
Property Transactions: Drafting and /or reviewing agreements in relation to the buying, selling, licensing, leasing, and development/re-development of real estate. This includes partnership agreements including limited liability partnerships, project management agreements, title deed, purchase agreements, sale agreements, possession letter, allotment letter, conveyance deeds, permanent alternate accommodation agreements, shareholder agreements, and any other related documents. 
Landlord and Tenant Relations: Drafting and/or reviewing commercial and residential lease agreements, leave and license agreements, their amendments, renewals, and termination letters.
Research: Research and Advising developers / tenants / members on zoning regulations, environmental regulations et al. 

International Trade 

Trade Compliance: Advising and providing opinion on compliance with import & export control laws, customs rules and regulations, duties, tariffs, taxes, sanctions, and international trade agreements, treaties & conventions, 
Cross-Border documentation: Drafting, Reviewing and Negotiating international agreements & all allied documents, related to the export and import of goods and services ensuring compliance with international trade laws and regulations.

Project Management
Legal & HR Project Management: Managing complex legal projects such as Contract Management, Standard Operating Procedures, Rights (media) Management, Human Resources – ERP, SAP, Standard Legal Clauses Framework, Escalation Matrix’s, Workflows et al. 
Contract Lifecycle Management: Assisting in managing the entire lifecycle of contracts, from drafting and negotiation to execution and termination. This includes customization of the software, preparing basic templates, contract tracking, renewals, and ensuring compliance with the agreed terms. 
Data Management System: Assist in preparation of uniform title / nomenclature, numbering system, manuals, excels, workflow for managing the data in electronic file and physical file formats. 
Assist in Software Customization: Assist in customization/design of digital platforms or software solutions for automating contract creation, storage, and management or any other legal processes. This includes the standard operating procedures, and varied matrix that are required for optimizing the goods/services to maximize the revenues.
